Steps to add custom field in payment (#8940)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/howdoi/checkout/checkout_payment_new_field.md

---
layout: tutorial
group: how-do-i
subgroup:

> title: Add a custom field in offline payment method

Author: Modified. Also, modify the _menu_order_ value

contributor_name: Ziffity
contributor_link: https://www.ziffity.com/
subtitle: Customize Checkout
menu_order: 3
level3_subgroup: checkout-tutorial
functional_areas:
  - Checkout
---

> 

Author: Description added about the topic.

The following steps are required to add a custom field to an offline payment method:

> 1. Create a new module.

Author: Got it. Updated each line item with the relevant links.

1. Add a `db_schema.xml` file.
1. Add a `requirejs` file to the module.
1. Override the vendor files.
1. Add an Observer.
1. Verify that the module works.

Let’s go through each step.

## Step 1: Create a new module

> Create a new module named `Learning/CustomField` and register it.

Author: Done.

For more information about creating a new module, refer to [Create a Module](https://devdocs.magento.com/videos/fundamentals/create-a-new-module/)

## Step 2 Add a `db_schema.xml` file

> Add the `paymentpocomment` column in the `quote_payment` and `sales_order_payment` table using the declarative schema method.

Author: Modified.

Create the declarative schema in the following path `app/code/Learning/CustomField/etc/db_schema.xml`:

> {% collapsible Show code %}

Author: Done.

```xml
<schema xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Setup/Declaration/Schema/etc/schema.xsd">
    <table name="quote_payment" resource="checkout" engine="innodb" comment="Sales Flat Quote Payment">
        <column xsi:type="text" name="paymentpocomment" nullable="true" comment="PO Comment"/>
    </table>
    <table name="sales_order_payment" resource="sales" engine="innodb" comment="Sales Flat Order Payment">
        <column xsi:type="text" name="paymentpocomment" nullable="true" comment="PO Comment"/>
    </table>
</schema>
```

## Step 3: Add a requirejs file to the module

Next, create the `requirejs-config.js` file:

`app/code/Learning/CustomField/view/frontend/requirejs-config.js`

```js
 var config = {
    map: {
        '*': {
          'Magento_OfflinePayments/js/view/payment/offline-payments':'Learning_CustomField/js/view/payment/offline-payments',
        }
    }
}
```

> {% endcollapsible %}

Reviewer: Delete. Also, note that this collapsible block would have hidden step 3.

## Step 4: Override the vendor files

> 

Reviewer: Provide a bulleted list of the files that need to overridden. Add a head3 section for each file.

Author: Modified. Also, added the head3 section.

Next, override the `offline-payments.js` file to change the renderer of the Purchase Order payment method.

`app/code/Learning/CustomField/view/frontend/web/js/view/payment/offline-payments.js`

> {% collapsible Show code %}

Reviewer: Delete.  Again, this is a small sample.

```js
define(
    [
        'uiComponent',
        'Magento_Checkout/js/model/payment/renderer-list'
    ],
    function (
        Component,
        rendererList
    ) {
        'use strict';
        rendererList.push(
            {
                type: 'checkmo',
                component: 'Magento_OfflinePayments/js/view/payment/method-renderer/checkmo-method'
            },
            {
                type: 'banktransfer',
                component: 'Magento_OfflinePayments/js/view/payment/method-renderer/banktransfer-method'
            },
            {
                type: 'cashondelivery',
                component: 'Magento_OfflinePayments/js/view/payment/method-renderer/cashondelivery-method'
            },
            {
                type: 'purchaseorder',
                component: 'Learning_CustomField/js/view/payment/method-renderer/purchaseorder-method'
            }
        );
        /** Add view logic here if needed */
        return Component.extend({});
    }
);
```

> {% endcollapsible %}

Reviewer: Delete

> It is also necessary to override the `purchaseorder-method.js` file.

Reviewer: Explain why this file needs to be overridden

Author: Provided an explanation.

                        </div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </fieldset>
        </form>
        <div class="checkout-agreements-block">
            <!-- ko foreach: $parent.getRegion('before-place-order') -->
                <!-- ko template: getTemplate() --><!-- /ko -->
            <!--/ko-->
        </div>
        <div class="actions-toolbar" id="review-buttons-container">
            <div class="primary">
                <button class="action primary checkout"
                        type="submit"
                        data-bind="
                        click: placeOrder,
                        attr: {title: $t('Place Order')},
                        enable: (getCode() == isChecked()),
                        css: {disabled: !isPlaceOrderActionAllowed()}
                        "
                        data-role="review-save">
                    <span data-bind="i18n: 'Place Order'"></span>
                </button>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 5: Add an Observer

> Next, it is necessary to create the Observer file to save the custom field data to the order. For the Observer file an `event.xml` file is required to call the observer for a particular event. For this example, the `checkout_onepage_controller_success_action` event is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an Observer file to save the custom field data to the order. For the Observer file, an `event.xml` file is required to call the observer for a particular event. For this example, the `checkout_onepage_controller_success_action` event is used.
```

    ) {
        $this->order = $order;
        $this->quoteRepository = $quoteRepository;
        $this->logger = $logger;
        $this->_serialize = $serialize;
    }
    /**
     * Execute observer
     *
     * @param \Magento\Framework\Event\Observer $observer
     * @return void
     */
    public function execute(\Magento\Framework\Event\Observer $observer)
    {
        $orderids = $observer->getEvent()->getOrderIds();
        if(!$orderids){
            foreach ($orderids as $orderid) {
                $order = $this->_order->load($orderid);
                $method = $order->getPayment()->getMethod();
                if($method == 'purchaseorder') {
                    $quote_id = $order->getQuoteId();
                    $quote = $this->quoteRepository->get($quote_id);
                    $paymentQuote = $quote->getPayment();
                    $paymentOrder = $order->getPayment();
                    $paymentOrder->setData('paymentpocomment',$paymentQuote->getPaymentpocomment());
                    $paymentOrder->save();
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 6: Verify that the module works

> Add the product to the cart and go to the checkout page and select `purchase order` payment method and check that the new custom field can be seen (Purchase Order Comment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the product to the cart and go to the checkout page and select the `purchase order` payment method. Check that the new Purchase Order Comment field is visible.
```

> If the `purchase order` payment method cannot be seen on the checkout page then go to Magento Admin and enable the payment method. See **Stores** > **Settings** > **Configuration** > **Sales** > **Payment Methods** > **Other Payment Methods** > **Purchase Order**

Reviewer: Making sure that purchase orders are enabled should be a prerequisite task. Move this info to near the beginning of this topic.

```suggestion
If the `purchase order` payment method cannot be seen on the checkout page, then go to Magento Admin and enable the payment method. See **Stores** > **Settings** > **Configuration** > **Sales** > **Payment Methods** > **Other Payment Methods** > **Purchase Order**.
```

Author: Moved this info to the beginning of the page.

Create the declarative schema in the following path `app/code/Learning/CustomField/etc/db_schema.xml`:

```xml
<schema xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Setup/Declaration/Schema/etc/schema.xsd">
    <table name="quote_payment" resource="checkout" engine="innodb" comment="Sales Flat Quote Payment">
        <column xsi:type="text" name="paymentpocomment" nullable="true" comment="PO Comment"/>
    </table>
    <table name="sales_order_payment" resource="sales" engine="innodb" comment="Sales Flat Order Payment">
        <column xsi:type="text" name="paymentpocomment" nullable="true" comment="PO Comment"/>
    </table>
</schema>
```

## Step 3: Add a requirejs file to the module {#add-require-js}

Next, create the `requirejs-config.js` file:

`app/code/Learning/CustomField/view/frontend/requirejs-config.js`

```js
 var config = {
    map: {
        '*': {
          'Magento_OfflinePayments/js/view/payment/offline-payments':'Learning_CustomField/js/view/payment/offline-payments',
        }
    }
}
```

## Step 4: Override the vendor files {#override-vendor-files}

> 

Author: Updated..

    ) {
        $this->order = $order;
        $this->quoteRepository = $quoteRepository;
        $this->logger = $logger;
        $this->_serialize = $serialize;
    }
    /**
     * Execute observer
     *
     * @param \Magento\Framework\Event\Observer $observer
     * @return void
     */
    public function execute(\Magento\Framework\Event\Observer $observer)
    {
        $orderids = $observer->getEvent()->getOrderIds();
        if(!$orderids){
            foreach ($orderids as $orderid) {
                $order = $this->_order->load($orderid);
                $method = $order->getPayment()->getMethod();
                if($method == 'purchaseorder') {
                    $quote_id = $order->getQuoteId();
                    $quote = $this->quoteRepository->get($quote_id);
                    $paymentQuote = $quote->getPayment();
                    $paymentOrder = $order->getPayment();
                    $paymentOrder->setData('paymentpocomment',$paymentQuote->getPaymentpocomment());
                    $paymentOrder->save();
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 6: Verify that the module works {#verify-implementation}

> 

Author: @keharper 
Yes, since we are creating a new module, we need to run the following commands:

```
bin/magento setup:upgrade
bin/magento setup:di:compile
bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy
```

Do you want me to add these commands as well before the verify step?

> 

Reviewer: Yes

> 

Author: Added...

> Add the product to the cart and go to the checkout page and select the `purchase order` payment method. Check that the new Purchase Order Comment field is visible.

Reviewer: Go to the storefront as a guest user and add the product to the cart. Go to the checkout page and select the **Purchase Order** payment. Verify that the **Purchase Order Comment** field is visible. 

Should the reader add some text and verify that it all worked. Also maybe check that the value is stored in the DB?

Author: @keharper The user can add some text and place an order using **Purchase Order**  payment. Then the user can able to check on the database side to verify the value is properly is set in the database.

Do you want me to add that information as well on this step?

Reviewer: Yes

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. Updated the information.

        if(!$orderids){
            foreach ($orderids as $orderid) {
                $order = $this->_order->load($orderid);
                $method = $order->getPayment()->getMethod();
                if($method == 'purchaseorder') {
                    $quote_id = $order->getQuoteId();
                    $quote = $this->quoteRepository->get($quote_id);
                    $paymentQuote = $quote->getPayment();
                    $paymentOrder = $order->getPayment();
                    $paymentOrder->setData('paymentpocomment',$paymentQuote->getPaymentpocomment());
                    $paymentOrder->save();
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 6: Verify that the module works {#verify-implementation}

-  Run the below command to enable the new module

```bash
bin/magento module:enable Learning_CustomField
```

-  Run the below command to install the new module

```bash
bin/magento setup:upgrade
```

-  Run the below command to compile the code

```bash
bin/magento setup:di:compile
```

-  Run the below command to deploy the static files

```bash
bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy
```

> Go to the storefront as a guest user and add the product to the cart. Go to the checkout page and select the **Purchase Order** payment. Verify that the **Purchase Order Comment** field is visible.

Reviewer: Each sentence should be its own numbered step.

Author: @keharper Updated.
